that we are making tangible progress so
we can get back to that road to
something much better but again we're
always going to focus on the facts and
when the facts are moving the right
direction that's because of you that's
because of the hard work all of you are
doing and doing so well the warmer
weather makes us start to think maybe
things are even a little better than the
facts suggest and that's what we have to
always keep our balance be hopeful be
inspired be diligent keep doing what we
have to do because what we're feeling
that beautiful weather out and that pull
of normalcy let's make it become real by
our actions so we understand all of us
that we have a job ahead of us and we
also have to remember that our reality
for each and every one of us is New
Yorkers it feels according to what
everyone's life is like a little bit
different of course but for most people
they're going about their lives seeing
something better however not so far away
no matter what neighborhood you're in
not so far away as a hospital in that
hospital is a different reality in many
cases and a reality that keeps us
grounded and as a reminder that we don't
stop fighting this battle in the
hospitals are our health care heroes
still fighting to really ensure that not
only their lives are saved but that we
fight back this disease once and for all
our hospitals do not feel normal yet
well we might feel out in the streets is
a lot better than what people are
experiencing in the hospitals there's
still a huge challenge in our hospitals
it may be better than what it was a few
weeks ago but it's still very very real
in our public hospitals we're still
around double the capacity in the IC use
that we were a few months ago they are
still every single day
people coming in in desperate shape need
the help of our health care heroes there
are still people who have been the ICU a
long time still fighting for their lives
so remember that as we start to feel a
little better we have to have a lot of
empathy a lot of feeling for the doctors
and nurses the frontline health care
workers continue that battle every day
go toward that danger we've all heard
the heroic story of Elmhurst Hospital in
Queens but there are many many others
like it and each day remember these
professionals go into a situation still
fighting an enemy that is not fully
understood by the medical community
still understanding the danger awaits
them when they go through those doors
and yet they show up every single day we
all want to go as far away from wherever
kovat ninety might be these health care
heroes go right toward it so we need to
keep supporting them and remember this
was a war the body armor for the health
workers is those ppes that personal
protective equipment that we talked
about so much that remains such a
crucial piece of the picture and
remember for a long time this has been a
week-to-week day-to-day struggle for
weeks and weeks to make sure there was
enough where we needed them and so many
people have been working so hard to
always make sure that our hospitals our
nursing homes had what they needed I
have to tell you it's been very tough
and sometimes it got very close to the
point where we looked like we were going
to run out became kind of a game of
whack-a-mole trying to get supplies one
place and then you hear another place
needs him now you're shifting over there
it was non-stop we've seen some things
move in the right direction it's a
ventilator situation that looked like
the single worst part of the equation at
one point that got a lot better but just
as that was getting better
they had a crisis with the surgical
gowns another crucial part of protecting
our heroes
so how did we get to a point now where
we're starting to have a little bit of
breathing room a lot of it was good
old-fashioned New York City ingenuity
it was those folks at the Brooklyn Navy
Yard and other places who built face
shields like the one you're seeing there
that was literally put together by hand
in the Brooklyn Navy Yard by New Yorkers
who wanted to help our health care
heroes that made a huge difference the
folks who came together you've met them
a few weeks back who put together the
ventilators from scratch an amazing
effort the surgical gowns that have been
both created here in New York City never
were produced here now they are and
sourced from places as far away as
Vietnam using relationships that New
York City companies had there's been a
lot of good stories here of New York
City ingenuity of New Yorkers come
together but we cannot rest on those
laurels because we know we got to keep
protecting our heroes and we know we're
far from done with this disease right
now and we also know that this disease
later on could have a second wave and
we're not going to be caught looking
we're going to be ready for so here's
where we stand today for the first time
since March we actually start a week
with enough of all of the PPE s we need
on that crisis standard I'm always going
to emphasize that that basic standard
not what we'd like to have ideally but
what is workable and usable for a
situation like this we have a little
breathing room we can finally ensure for
the whole week ahead at every hospital
every nursing home they will get what
they need that means the n95 mask the
surgical masks the gloves the face
shields the surgical gowns the whole set
I it's striking
the largest city in the country the
greatest country in the world and yet
this is the first week in a couple of
months that we've been able to say we
have a solid week ahead of everything
that's sobering to remember
just what a ferocious enemy were up
against and just how much we did not
understand any of us that the supplies
we depended on the equipment depend on
was so many cases not only not made in
New York City not made in the United
States of America this has been a real
sobering lesson and one that we have
learned from and we're going to handle
things differently going forward so
within this struggle over these last
weeks what has become clear and clear is
it's been tough enough for all the
heroes and the hospitals they've been
fighting such a tough battle but we've
come to realize that there are also
heroes in our nursing homes the folks
who work there don't get as much
attention they need support too we've
come to see very very painful things
happening in our nursing homes and we
all need to work together to make that
situation better now and for the future
so when I think about a nursing home I
think about the people the parents the
grandparents the people who those
facilities are there to protect now
again many of them are private
facilities and I think there's real
questions about if they've all done as
best they could do but that's not the
question for today the question for the
day is how do we stabilize situation how
do we help right now how we build a
stronger future for protecting our
elders over the last weeks we've sent 10
million pieces of personal protective
equipment to the nursing homes to
protect the folks that work there and
the folks who live there this week we
are sending to nursing homes across the
five boroughs 1.9 million surgical masks
170,000 face shields 7 or 60,000 gloves
a hundred and seventy three thousand
surgical gowns 15,000 coveralls and
aprons and 10,000 shoe coverings so want
to keep surging those PPEs into the
nursing homes continue making them
stronger so they can protect the
precious individuals who are living
there who mean
so much to so many families in this city
that's a commitment we're gonna keep as
I said we've learned a lot of powerful
lessons about all of this and the notion
that I can tell you we have a whole week
supply ahead that's big news that's good
news that's certainly not the way we can
live going forward we have to do
something much better I never want to
see New York City in this situation
again I want New York City protect
itself going forward because we've come
to realize we couldn't rely on the
private market we couldn't rely on the
federal government we need to protect
ourselves there's no place like New York
City and New York City has tremendous
ability and capacity and the most
talented people in the world going
forward we're gonna make sure that we're
ready no matter what else is happening
around us so I told you a few days back
about the fact that we're starting a New
York City strategic reserve and this is
something that's going to grow and it's
not only going to be about stockpiling
it's going to be about ensuring we have
the capacity to build things right here
now whatever we deal with in the future
we're not waiting on factories in other
part of the country to another part of
the world the maximum stand possible we
have the plans and the ability right
here to build what we need so job one of
course is to make sure we can address
the immediate needs so when we get to
the point of having a two-week supply of
PPEs for the immediate needs at our
hospitals and nursing homes we are then
going to start the process of building
up our reserve we want to have a 90 day
stockpile of PPEs and crucial equipment
we want to have that ready and in
reserve for whatever happens up ahead
look talked yesterday about the
boomerang we want to fight against that
boomerang but that reserve is there god
forbid we ever saw a resurgence of the
disease there's also more talk about a
second wave of the disease later in the
year to begin next year we want to be
ready for that so we're gonna have our
own reserves that we control ready at
all times to protect our people now the
strategy will be one that could simply
be summer
buying and building will buy the
supplies from all over the country all
over the world whenever they're
available but will increasingly have the
ability to build them right here in New
York City we will not be dependent on
one source because we have to protect
our people that means we need more than
one place to turn to make sure there's
always the supplies and equipment we
need now an important piece of this
larger puzzle how we protect each other
how we fight back this disease is
something that is a more recent part of
the strategy but I think it's been very
very successful overall and that is face
coverings you know weeks ago I said we
want New Yorkers to now start using face
coverings in public I have to say thank
you to the people of the city
overwhelmingly even though it wasn't
something you were used to doing
overwhelmingly New Yorkers have taken to
using face coverings when you go outside
it takes some getting used to
as we've emphasized you don't need a
fancy surgical mask
you don't need an n95 you just need
something to cover your face and New
Yorkers have been creative and
resourceful as always and the vast
majority of people are complying and we
want to see a lot more compliance going
forward so remember that protecting each
other
reduces the spread of the disease gets
us one step closer to normal I know
putting on a face cover is not
necessarily fun I know as the weather
gets warmer it may feel inconvenient
sometimes you don't remember it but
think about this to motivate you when
you put on that face covering you are
reducing the spread of this disease and
taking one small step towards normalcy
so I may not always feel fun but it's
gonna feel really good when we get out
of this when they can put this crisis
behind us everyone can contribute just
put on that face covering yes don't
hesitate put it on bring it with you
bring some extras with you so you'll
always have one now we know that
sometimes people just forget or they
don't have one or they don't have a way
to get one so the city's gonna step in
this weekend the last couple of days we
started huge distribution of free face
coverings in part
ups and other locations around the city
great response
people were really grateful to get them
we're going to now build that up to a
much higher level so we are now going to
ramp up a plan and it will take effect
starting immediately to distribute 7.5
million face coverings meaning wherever
you turn you're gonna be offered a face
covering and it's going to be on an
ongoing basis for weeks to come
to make sure that everyone has what they
need these of course will be distributed
for free as we work together to be back
this disease 5 million and this so
there's a couple kinds I'll hold up this
kind first five million are the three
ply non-medical mass so again I want to
emphasize when you look at one of these
and I did not really fully understand it
first these the ones that have the wire
at the top that you can kind of shape
around your nose these are the 3 ply
non-medical mask these are not the same
as what our health care heroes use but
they really do help they really do
reduce the spread of the disease if
anyone happens to be infected it helps
make sure that others are not 5 million
of these will be given out now these are
reusable so long as they stay dry and I
think there's been a lot of questions do
you know I think some people again we
unfortunately live in a little bit of a
throwaway culture here in our country
something we need to start getting away
from people might think I'll use it once
it's run away no you can keep using it
so long as it stays drive it's dry the
integrity of it holds and it performs
the protective function if it gets wet
it might be compromised but so long as
it's dry you can use it certainly a
number of times the other thing we're
going to give out is 2.5 million of the
cloth consuming cloth face covering so
cloth face coverings that are reusable
that are washable you can use them as
long as they hold together we'll be
getting a lot of those as well now where
will we be giving them out
a lot of places in your city a whole
different whole different set of places
I mentioned our parks of course that
will be one focal point in addition at
public housing developments at the grab
and go food sites being run out of
schools at mitchell-lama affordable
housing buildings at the Staten Island
Ferry any place that the NYPD and the
Parks Department other agencies are
going to enforce social distancing
they'll also be carrying a supply of
free face coverings so it's going to
become more and more you're going to see
it expand this week we're in now I think
it's going to make things easier and
easier for New Yorkers who want to
follow these rules and want to keep
people safe and that is clearly the vast
majority of the people of this city now
let's talk about what we continue to do
as we work back towards and normalcy
what we continue to do to keep making
things happen for our kids you know I've
said before our kids have gone through a
lot in this crisis I think in some ways
it's been particularly tough for them
compared to everyone else we all feel
stir-crazy I think they feel it many
times over but what has been a real ray
of light here is that the remote
learning the online learning that was
entirely experimental trying to build
something out for 1.1 million kids in a
matter of days it's really been a good
news story and everyone deserve credit
hour deserves credit our educators our
parents our kids all the folks who came
together for the do-e the companies
everyone who put this together they're
doing something amazing and it's working
but one of the things that was clear
from the very beginning we were honest
about is look there's a digital divide
it's something we have to fight against
and it's alive and well that means some
people have technology and other people
don't well in the middle of this crisis
something good happened despite the pain
despite the challenges and that was
something really important for closing
that digital divide
every single public school student who
requested an iPad got one just want you
to think about the magnitude of that
statement in a city where for a long
time the haves and the have-nots have
played out in terms of Technology and
huge numbers of kids just didn't have
access to the technology that so many
other New Yorkers consider to be
absolutely basic their lives every child
who asked for an iPad got an iPad for
free that is now total up to two hundred
fifty five thousand iPads they've been
distributed in a matter of weeks
extraordinary effort everyone involved
to be very proud of themselves and any
public school child who still doesn't
have that iPad it's totally available on
request delivered to the door of the
family but for any reason there's still
a child who hasn't gotten one they can
call 3-1-1 the family can call 3-1-1 and
get one right away but the good news is
we now want to go further and there's a
special group of New York City
children we want to help and these are
students with disabilities in our non
public schools we want to make sure
since we have some additional iPads
available we want to help them to learn
to the maximum during this tough time
take full advantage of online learning
so we are offering iPads for free to
these students as well now I've often
said kids with disabilities struggle and
they fight so hard and we have to have
their back we have to respect how tough
it is for our students and their
families dealing with this additional
challenge and now a pandemic on top of
it we have to be there for them so we
will provide free iPads for any students
who have disabilities and are in our non
public schools we believe that's a
universe of about 35,000 students and
that means students in religious schools
independent schools any non-public
any student needs an iPad and goes to
one of those schools and has disability
can call 3-1-1 their family can call
3-1-1 or go to schools dot nyc.gov sign
up iPad will be sent to your home for
free okay
now we're going to go to what we look
forward to everyday which is our
progress report our daily indicators and
I want to give you an update that we
have structured these indicators we say
there's three categories but but the
third category has always had two pieces
and there was a reason for that
originally there was a citywide and the
public health lab numbers and the reason
originally was the public health lab was
really the leading edge of so what much
of what was being done in the way of
testing in the beginning of this crisis
remember January February pleading with
the federal government just to let us do
tests in New York City to begin with and
how long it took and at be in the
beginning that were very very few tests
being taken public health lab leading
the way and they did a great job we
needed it especially when hospitals
didn't have a lot of testing capacity up
and private companies were just coming
into play now we have a much better
situation when it comes to testing many
many hospitals have access to their own
testing the public health lab is
actually down to a very very small
fraction of citywide testing at this
point so knowing that the public health
labs sample has gotten smaller and
smaller all the time and knowing
therefore that makes the results more
volatile we're now going to take that
public health lab measure out of our
indicators it served us well to now but
we don't think it is necessary anymore
we're going to use that citywide testing
number as the sole measure in the third
indicator especially as more and more
testing is coming online we're getting a
truer and truer sense of what's
happening and that number certainly will
suffice so I am very pleased to say we
have three indicators now and all three
are down today so congratulations in New
York City this is the kind of day
we have been waiting for and it is a
beautiful thing and let's put together
some more like it and that's our pathway
to something better
daily number of people indicator one
daily number of people admitted to
hospitals for suspected kovat 19 that is
down from 113 to 88 daily number of
people in IC use across our public
hospitals for a suspected kovat down 645
to 632 percent of people tested who are
positive for coding over 19 citywide
down from 20 percent to 17 percent an
excellent day all three down all moving
in the same direction let's do it again
thank you well done
New York City so as I close I want you
sort of a small thought process of
empathy because I think vast majority of
people in the city you either know a
doctor a nurse a lab tech someone a
healthcare worker someone who works in
the hospital someone who works in a
nursing home think of the people in your
life think of your friends think of your
family most New Yorkers know someone who
works in our extraordinary health care
field in this city just take a short
time to put yourself literally in their
shoes walking through the door of that
hospital that clinic that nursing home
and as you do that if you try and
empathize if you're trying to feel what
they're feeling I don't think you're
gonna say oh I don't feel any fear at
all I don't recognize any danger I think
you would immediately say no in fact you
do feel fear you do feel the danger
present but what's so striking what's so
amazing is not the people somehow make
themselves blind to the fear but that
they stare it in the face and they walk
through the door anyway it's absolutely
inspiring it's happening every hour of
every day here in this city why do
people do this because
they believe in saving lives they
believe they are answering a higher
calling and they are so let's us answer
a higher calling and get them what they
need get them those ppes make sure they
are protected and then let's protect
them with what we can do by sheltering
in place to the maximum stand possible
by going and making sure that we always
practice social distancing by putting on
those face coverings all of that is part
of protecting our health care heroes and
protecting each other and it works
and today's indicators prove it so we
are clearly winning this fight let's
keep winning and let's protect the
heroes who we depend on so much few
words in Spanish estamos haciendo
Progresso en esta noche para nuestros
medicals en femoris trabajo Dora de
salud todava estn en peligro cardia
por primera vez desde MRSA estamos
Seguros que tenemos todo el equipo de
proteccin necesario para pasar esta
semana les damos alone mas seguridad
para que pueden seguir Sal bando vidas
hora y durante las olas que pueden pasar
en el futuro with that we turn to our
colleagues in the media and please let
me know the name and outlet of each
journalist hi all just a reminder we
have police commissioner che health
commissioner Barbeau Social Services
Commissioner banks and senior advisor
dr. Varma on the phone with that I will
start with Ashley from the New York
Times good morning to everyone present I
want to ask two questions first
like if the police commissioner can give
an
update on the investigation of the event
on the Lower East Side including the
status of the other officers involved in
that incident whether he plans to
release the demographic data requested
by the Public Advocate on social
distancing enforcement and what appears
to be discrepancies between the NYPD
account and the videos for instance the
NYPD account is that these officers
stopped these in a group of individuals
for social distancing when the video you
see just two people standing outside a
bodega or a corner store and
discrepancies persists from there and
then for the mayor and both the police
commissioner you know the city has spent
years and hundreds of millions of
dollars on de-escalation neighborhood
policing and such and we still see
incidents like this where officers often
times and in this case with histories of
this conduct allegations involved in
incidents where they have appeared to
use more force than what is necessary
and escalate confrontations I'm
wondering if the mayor if you could
adjust whether you're giving any second
thought to having the police as the
front line in enforcing social
distancing and if there will be any
changes going forward Ashley I do
appreciate the question very much
because I think it gets to the heart of
what we have all been working on for
over six years now in terms of changing
the nature of policing in New York City
remember the entire police force has
been retrained constantly in
de-escalation and in neighborhood
policing very very different approaches
than what existed in the past I'm very
confident that these approaches are
taking hold more and more in the NYPD
the video was very troubling what I saw
was absolutely unacceptable and
obviously a discipline was swift by the
NYPD but I want to note that that video
is more and more of a rarity what you
saw there is more and more of a rarity
we still have work to do unquestionably
but the progress is very clear to see
policing is changing in this city has
been changing the leadership the NYPD
over three commissioners now has
emphasized much more training focus on
de-escalation a focus on close
connection to the people the NYPD serves
and a neighborhood policing philosophy
and more and more members of the NYPD
are coming into service with this being
the entire message and lesson and
strategy they learn from the very
beginning and I think we're seeing the
results of that very positively that
doesn't mean there aren't incidents like
this that we don't have to fight against
all the time
and if any individuals don't understand
and are not willing to work with those
strategies the NYPD has the capacity to
identify them and deal with them because
we're not going to have that kind of
behavior in our police force on the
other point about the the nature of
social distancing enforcement again this
one incident is troubling but there's
been thousands and tens of thousands of
interactions between police officers and
civilians over the last week's
that went very well where the NYPD went
and made sure that people were
practicing social distancing when
enforcement was necessary they exercised
enforcement in communities all over the
city by and large we've seen New Yorkers
really abiding by social distancing and
the rules we're living with and the NYPD
has been crucial to that they will
remain crucial to that I've said we're
bringing other agencies in to augment
this effort more and more civilians will
be brought in to augment this effort as
well more and more free face coverings
but you can't do effective enforcement
without the NYPD and the NYPD is more
than up to the job commissioner
commissioner
so I would say a lot of the same I mean
I I spoke yesterday about the end of
that video and and I was not happy with
what I saw I think we we can be better
than that quite frankly but I think you
need to look at it in the context of
hundreds and hundreds of thousands of
encounters across the city whether it's
through routine encounters arrests
taking guns off people without firing
shots certainly summoning many people I
think the the escalation training that
was put in place in years past and
continues is just you have another tool
in the toolbox and I think it's
effective I wish it was one hundred
percent effective but that's not
unfortunately the world that we live in
but we'll learn from it as we do from
any example continue to train and try to
get better I would I would also remind
you that the escalation takes two
unfortunately there's two people
involved in every encounter and what
we've seen in the past is is when people
do not comply with the police in the
first takedown now I'm talking about
sometimes those things are not pretty
when they're seen on video and again
that's something also that we train them
which we train to avoid it do we train
to take people into custody seeking
compliance at all times but ultimately
we don't always receive that compliance
I just very briefly tell you what we
know about the entire incident we have
three individuals taken into custody
still ongoing we've recovered several
pieces of video beyond the first piece
so what we can tell you now is that the
incident begins with an individual
that's sitting on a milk crate in front
of the location he's engaged in
conversation with a female those the two
individuals subsequently arrested as
well as the third person that the video
on the corner takes place in totality of
this incident what was recovered was a
Taser
that does not belong to the NYPD a small
amount of marijuana and roughly close to
three thousand dollars in US currency so
exactly what was going on there
there's still somewhat under
investigation Ashley but I don't think
this takes away from what I said the
other day the end of the video I think
we got to be better and that's what was
most troubling to him yeah and to the
point
Ashley about data want to make sure that
whatever data we do have on enforcement
we get out obviously enforcement takes
many forms we've talked about this for a
long time if it involves substantial
gathering we are going to have been very
very clear to commissioners been clear
that's straight to summons unless people
are gone instantly any one of lingers is
getting a summons that's easy to get
data on other cases of course just the
appearance of the NYPD causes people to
correct their behavior so you know where
we have an action that is trackable we
will get that data out I want people to
see just how clearly enforcement is
being practiced all over the city every
kind of neighborhood but the good news
again is in many cases we don't ever get
to the point of summons because the
behavior is corrected instantly and
that's exactly what we want
next we have Katie from The Wall Street
Journal hey good morning everyone I
wanted to ask Mayor was on my mind this
weekend with the beautiful weather I
wanted to see if there was an update on
the city's summer plan I know it seems
that the fourth of July fireworks are
all set but what's the plan for making
sure that beaches are guarded maybe
working out a plan to monitor social
distancing there I you know it was just
on my mind because the weather was so
nice and the parks were so packed so
what's the status on that we're going to
be issuing a plan the again
traditionally beaches don't open until
Memorial Day as everyone knows they will
not be opening on the more
all day and will not be opening anytime
soon but we're gonna certainly keep the
option open depending on how well we do
for options later on in the year but as
I've said many times we're going to be
publishing a summer plan soon and we're
going to give people a clearer sense of
how we're going to keep everyone safe
even if we're doing things differently
beaches that are not open still require
enforcement clearly so those parameters
will be put out and then we'll watch to
see how things evolve to see if we can
do something different as we go along as
things get better the fourth of July
keep saying we're the specifics to be
determined as we get more information
working closely with Macy's obviously
the NYPD the one thing I will guarantee
is there will be a celebration of the
4th of July and fireworks will play a
role but how and where and in what
fashion what it means for people's
ability to watch it what the conditions
will be that's still far in the future
literally it being May 4th you know two
months ahead so that we're going to have
a lot more to say when we get much
closer next we have Shawn from The Daily
News morning mr. mayor I wanted to ask a
few questions about homelessness on the
subways in light of two apparently
homeless men dying on the subways over
the weekend for one is the city going to
do wide scale medical examinations of
homeless people found on the subways
another thing can you say how many hotel
rooms have been secured for the homeless
and how many of those would be
accessible to people found on the
subways one or two more things would be
if the Bowery residents committee is
involved directing homeless people to
hotel rooms and just in general what is
the overall strategy for preventing more
deaths of homeless people on the subways
and a potential real tragedy Thank You
Shawn the look it's horrible it's
horrible when we lose people whose life
you know their lives something went
wrong in their lives
point and they ended up homeless on the
streets and this is what we have talked
about over these last months that this
is not a reality we should accept any
longer in our city and in fact the the
specific plan we put out in December the
journey home plan is literally the
pathway to ending permanent street
homelessness in New York City and
particularly bringing in those folks who
have been out there for years it's a
it's an unacceptable reality it has been
this way in the city for decades we
finally believe we have the tools to
stop it to end it once and for all
because of the home stat strategy that's
been working and commissioner banks can
tell you the exact number as of today of
folks who have been brought in over the
last three years from the streets from
the subways into safe havens into
permanent housing or stayed there we
have a strategy it's working we're going
to apply that strategy more and more
intensely it's even been working through
the pandemic and I know it will work
more and more as we come out of the
pandemic so that's that's where we have
to go because this is about human beings
whose lives came unglued we have to find
a way to you know everybody something
brought them to the street we have to
help them back from the street and to a
better life and we can in terms of
alternative the Commissioner but I'll
say that the basics are we will always
have a hotel room available for anyone
who needs it who's in the shelter system
we will always have a bed available for
anyone who's coming out of the subway
who's been living on the street who
needs a safe haven bed or shelter bed we
will always have one available
we're building out that capacity further
we do already send out teams to check on
homeless folks that can do and often do
include a doctor or a nurse whenever
needed they're available NYPD and home
of services can call in medical support
very very rapidly we want to see more
and more that going forward but the real
goal here is not to live with the
reality of homeless on the streets and
subways but do something about it I
think the vision that was I think a very
positive one
I worked on with the governor's team to
ensure that the subways in this crisis
would be closed in the early morning
hours and cleaned and it'll give us a
better chance to engage homeless folks
and get them to shelter I think that's
going to be another important piece of
this strategy commissioner banks thank
you out I would just add a few few piece
of information shot so overall as the
mayor and I committed to we are
continuing to move people out of
shelters into hotel rooms right now
about 7,000 of the 17,000 people in our
single adult shelter system are in hotel
rooms and we've set a goal to continue
to move at people each week until we can
have wide-scale testing in place and
we're going to continue to do that this
week and to the future with respect to
bringing people in from the streets
we've recently brought on beginning to
bring on 200 safe haven and
stabilization beds and we'll bring on
more to be able to bring people in look
it's just a tragedy when we lose people
and these two individuals were people
that we've been trying to bring in from
the streets it's a difficult process can
take dozens if not more counters to
bring somebody in the BRC is one of the
key partners that's been in place for a
number of years to bring people out from
the streets and they're part of the
effort along with other Street providers
and subway provide as a subway provider
they've enabled about 2,500 people to
come in from the streets and remain off
the streets we do know about these two
individuals who passed away that they
were obviously part of people that we've
been trying to bring in and since the
beginning of this the BNE of March we've
had 20,000 encounters with homeless
people attempting to identify whether or
not they have any signs of symptoms of
kovat in that process 12 people are
identified with potential symptoms
they're each brought to the hospital and
they tested negative of
these two individuals we do know that
one of them has tested negative and
we're waiting the results from the other
so we're going to keep doing what we've
been doing every night which is trying
to bring people into available beds that
we have making sure that they have
services not just putting them in rooms
without appropriate supportive services
where we can help people get on the road
to remaining off the streets next we
have Sydney from the Staten Island
Advance mr. mayor borough president otto
and congressman max rose called on you
last week to send military medical
personnel to Staten Island's private
hospitals saying it's inexplicable that
Staten Island has not received any
what's your response to their letter are
you ever going to send any military
medical personnel to Staten Island and
what's been holding you back from
sending say even just a handful or a
dozen of them to Staten Island and if
you could elaborate a bit on protocol
who makes the call when it comes to
where to send military medical staff is
that you is that the state is it a mix
of both
certainly again I want to be very clear
the military medical personnel have been
absolutely outstanding
from the Army from the airforce from the
Navy this all emerged from conversations
I had with President Trump and secretary
Esper and general Milley about the need
to address the situation Elmhurst
Hospital Lincoln Hospital Bellevue the
places that were seeing absolutely
overwhelming number of cases and where
the teams there have been through a
particular challenge we have 56
hospitals that have been in this fight
all over the city our public hospital
system or the brunt and we got a number
of military medical personnel nowhere
near the number that we asked for but
still a very healthy number and they
have been devoted to those public
hospitals and doing important work in
the meantime we have been sending
additional doctors and nurses from
different sources that we have gotten to
hospitals all over the city not just
public hospitals but independent
hospitals as well including in the case
of Staten Island rum see
we will continue to send additional
staff as needed so the military medical
personnel one piece of the puzzle but in
terms of additional staffing I've been
in touch with the borough president been
in touch with the CEO of rum see when
they have asked for additional ppes
we've gotten them to them when they've
asked for additional personnel we've
been working to get them we've gotten
himself we'll keep getting them more
we're gonna keep working case by case
all over the city but that military
piece was a discrete piece of a much
bigger effort and those individuals have
been outstanding and they've been
focused on some of the hospitals have
really borne the brunt in this crisis
next we have Erin from Politico hi mr.
mayor I'm wondering if you think that
essential city workers who died from
coronavirus should be classified as line
of duty deaths and you said the federal
government should step up for their
families but in the meantime um do you
have any plans to extend any benefits to
them such as continuing their health
insurance I mean I'd love to hear
Commissioner shades opinion as well look
we obviously care deeply for the
families of our public servants and we
feel for any family that's lost someone
and we want to figure out how we can be
supportive as they're going through all
this we're working now to determine
first what the federal government can
and will do obviously the city is in a
very very tough spot right now in terms
of everything we're going through
humanly and the fact that our resources
have been drained down in a way we've
never seen in decades and we need to
make sure we help people we also need to
make sure that we can keep providing
everything that people need in this city
so I think job one is to get that
federal support job one is to make sure
that our heroes and their families are
supported by the place that has ample
resources the only place that has ample
resources which is the federal
government but we will keep working as
well to figure out all the ways that we
can support those families we'll have
more to say on that in the coming days
Commissioner Shea you want to add
yeah there's not too much to add to this
mr. mayor it's certainly a complicated
issue I could tell you that from the
police department side we've lost 38
members six of them are auxilary six of
them are uniformed and the remainder are
civilians each with different benefits
some with none quite frankly on some are
unpaid employees and what we've said
from the beginning with this is that
we're going to try to weather the storm
the good news is that people have been
coming back we're getting closer to
normal strength and when this is all
over we'll we'll sort out this extremely
complicated issue working with the
unions working with the labor people to
make sure that we do everything to
support our people next we have Gloria
from New York one hi mr. mayor first I
just want to get some clarity on why the
city is eliminating the the public lab
indicator from its data I'm not trying
the difference between the public health
lab and the other category and I wanted
to ask if you why you're distributing
right made the decision to distribute PB
East to nursing homes this week and why
that wasn't done earlier and that's it
that's what I got okay well again so the
public health lab right now it's less
than 1% I think it's 0.1% of the testing
that's being done all over the city so
you know 99 percent plus of tests are
now being done in other types of labs
than the health department's Public
Health lab so the numbers have just
changed markedly originally we were
talking about a situation where it was
one of the only places that was testing
it's really amazing Gloria to think
about go back in time to months when
there was very little testing and the
public health labs one of the only
things we had and
for that we had to beg the federal
government to allow us even to do that
the public health lab test loomed very
large as a percentage of what we knew
now it's an exceedingly small percentage
and it's more volatile because it is
such a small percentage such a small
sample size so we came to the conclusion
that the much more pertinent measure was
the citywide testing and that it was
safe we obviously have a very cautious
approach here it was safe to use that
measure alone and that's why we made the
decision on the nursing homes again I'm
going to quote what I said back earlier
in my presentation I went over what we
have what we're sending out this week
but the distribution to the nursing
homes began in March and it increased
and again we have been working with the
state as more and more concerns emerged
we stepped in and provided more and more
PPEs directly to nursing homes so it's
been 10 million pieces so far and what I
gave today was simply an update on what
we're doing going forward but this has
been an aggressive effort since March
and we're going to keep building it as
needed next we have Steve from Westwood
One News good morning miss Tamera good
morning everybody on the call I have a
question
for the health commissioner I'm
wondering actually two questions um
where do we stand as far as the
mortality rate goes for our critically
ill patients and hospitals our doctors
have they gained a better understanding
of best practices for treating
critically ill patients today compared
to six weeks ago has that mortality rate
in in ICUs has it gone down and then
also concerning some of the new medical
treatments like REM disappear our public
hospitals involved in the expanded use
of these experimental drugs and if not
why
and then also I've done a couple of
interviews with people who had
coronavirus who have some very serious
underlying issues and are on
immunosuppressive drug
and this is completely anecdotal but
they all recovered and considering that
a lot of what these critically ill
patients are suffering as a result of
their immune systems reactions to the
virus has there been any study or look
at immunosuppressant drugs and the role
they play or possible role they could
play in the treatment of critically ill
patients thank you so dr. barb oh you
start and dr. varma if you want to add
after that feel free dr. Barr both so as
we've been saying all along have been
learning every day about how this virus
behaves as well as from a clinical point
of view and initially there was very
little that could be offered with
regards to treatments for individuals
diagnosed with koban 19 and as a
reminder we still don't have definitive
treatment for koban 19 and obviously we
still don't have the vaccine that being
said there were several drugs there have
been several drugs that have been
utilized to treat koban 19 on a
[Music]
experimental basis we have gone through
things like hydroxychloroquine etc now
this new drug from disappear has been
demonstrated to shorten the amount of
time that individuals need ongoing
support ventilatory support and so I
think with time and with more studies we
will be able to better ascertain how
effective this medication is for koban
xix our public hospital system has very
much been leveraging medications that
have potential impact on improving
individual's health they are for example
looking at potentially use antibodies or
treating individuals who are severely
ille with koban 19 so the long and short
of it is that we have a very robust
public healthcare delivery system with H
and H being a leader and they most
certainly are leveraging all of the
potential therapeutics that are made
available in ways that look to minimize
the number of people that are on
ventilatory support for extended periods
of time that being said I think we'll
have to get back to you on mortality
rates of individuals that have been in
the intensive care unit
dr. varma you want to add it all sure
yeah I would just try to emphasize that
there's absolutely a lot that we're
still learning about the role of the
immune system in this disease we also
have to be cautious and make sure that
different treatments that modify the
immune system our our study rigorously
we know from the experience in intensive
care for a whole range of similar types
of diseases like influenza there's
always been a lot of promise to drugs
that might modify the immune system but
when they're actually studied rigorously
where you compare one group that gets
the drug versus another group that
doesn't you actually in defining that
you don't have that impact so I think we
are going to continue to learn a lot and
one of the real great advances here has
been the role of our public hospital
system in piloting this research as well
as collaborations that are occurring all
over the world so so I do think the
questions that you're raising about the
role of the immune system both in people
who are taking these medications before
they get the infection and in treating
people who then get it we're going to
get answers very soon but but it's most
important to keep in mind that they
should really be done in the context of
research because there's a lot of fog in
the middle of a war and we really need
that clarity for everybody that that's
already been infected and everybody that
may get infected next we have Marsha
from CBS good morning mr. mayor I have
two questions the first one has to do
with the role of social distance
and the reopening of small businesses I
wonder first of all you know if you feel
that that you're satisfied with the
level of compliance you're getting from
New Yorkers in terms of social
distancing wearing masks etc and then if
when you reach that point where you are
satisfied
would you be able to then let small
businesses open with the correct social
distancing keeping people six feet away
wearing masks wearing gloves etc because
a lot of small businesses are really
hurting and I wonder if the social
distancing part of it would enable you
to to open these small businesses sooner
rather than later so that we they don't
face economic ruin and my second
question is for you and for the police
commissioner I wonder if you can tell us
about the attempted rape on that
out-of-town nurse if she's still working
on the frontlines and living in New York
City while the suspect is on the loose
Thank You Marshall I'll have the
Commissioner speak to the second
question then we're obviously very
pained anytime anyone is attacked
particularly someone who is doing such
noble work for all of us and we will
certainly bring the individual involved
the perpetrator to justice there's no
question and we'll support that nurse in
every way we came out how the
Commissioner give you that update on the
question of small business so your your
question a couple different pieces I'll
put them all together am I satisfied by
what I'm seeing I am very impressed by
what New Yorkers are doing Marcia in
terms of staying at home to the maximum
extent possible practicing social
distancing wearing face coverings people
deserve high marks overall there are
some people not getting it and those
people need to get it because they're
putting everyone else in danger there
are some instances where the rules are
not being followed
that requires enforcement there's more
to be done but if I look at where we are
over the course of two months and a
great unknown in the middle of a
pandemic no one could have predicted how
having New Yorkers done they've done
very very well in terms of what that
means for reopening small business well
that's a foundational start to reopening
small business if that wasn't true
Marsha if New Yorkers
we're not doing such an exceptional job
at the social distancing and all the
other pieces that we need we wouldn't be
able to talk about reopening small
business so job one is going pretty well
the indicators that we're putting out
we've been making real progress
we haven't still turned the corner the
way we need to where we see those
indicators go steadily consistently down
we still have too many new cases too
many people were losing each day we're
not out of the woods but we are getting
closer for sure when it comes to how
social distancing will help in the
restart of small business unquestionably
it will be a necessary piece of it for
small businesses that will have a
tougher time practicing social distance
those are the kind that will probably
open later or with even more stringent
rules for those that can practice social
distancing more easily those might be
the ones that open sooner we have not
put those final plans together we'll be
speaking about that soon but I do see
some good indicators from other parts of
world we certainly see in Europe that
there's been a very smart effort to open
certain kinds of small business they
have the greater ability to practice
social distancing those tend to be the
first wave I think that's the kind of
thing we'll be looking to do here but
details to come shortly commissioner say
yes so on this you can plug right into
NYPD tips the NYPD 3o precinct Twitter
page my Twitter page very good video of
an individual that we're looking to
identify from this incident I could tell
you that the incident occurred about
9:00 p.m. on Friday up in Upper
Manhattan I won't get into too specific
about the the victim in this case but
she was a nurse that was working helping
others on the pandemic and I have no
doubt that somebody knows who this
individual is if you do please reach out
to our Crime Stoppers and let's get this
person off the street as quickly as
possible
thankfully the individual was fought off
and fled we have so again some good
pictures so I am sure that in short
order he'll be brought to justice
next we have Julia from the post
hey good morning to everyone I hope
you're all doing well a couple quick
quick follow-up questions two shots
questions on the homeless individuals
who died in the subway for the mayor and
commissioner banks and then mr. mayor
just a separate question for you on the
quarantine hotels um Commissioner banks
you said that one of the individuals
tested negative I wondered if you know
how long ago that was because of course
after the negative tests he could have
caught the virus um and then mr. mayor
I'm wondering what you can say about how
these deaths within 12 hours of each
other what do they say about how the
city is handling the homelessness crisis
during the pandemic and then mr. mayor
on the quarantine hotels any update on
that city investigation into the men who
died in the hotel and have hospitals
resumed sending people to the hotel and
others I believe that was pending
because of the investigation
we'll get you an update today Julia on
the investigation at the time obviously
we wanted to make sure it was a very for
us it was an interesting and painful
reality interesting in the sense that we
thought we were receiving people who
were fully cured painful because we lost
people that it didn't make sense why we
were losing them the the fact is that
those individuals came out of hospitals
we understood having fought their way
through something went wrong we'll get
to the update today on that
investigation we need to make sure that
everyone is protected so we'll also get
you an update on what's going on with
the hotels in terms of accepting
patients one of the things we said and
they're doing is to have medical
oversight in all facilities checking
regularly on people again it's so
strange and troubling that someone would
have left a hospital being cleared to
leave and then something else still
happens so we're going to constant
we have medical oversight to make sure
that never happens again
on the question of what's been happening
with our street homeless again different
reality for people in shelters but for
the street homeless there's been a
constant effort to check in on them
commissioner banks can tell you about
the number of contacts that the street
outreach teams have made I have to tell
you these street outreach workers never
stopped even during this pandemic they
kept going out to try and protect the
lives of homeless folks it was an
incredibly noble effort it continues and
in fact we're able to get a number of
homeless people off the streets even
during this and get them into a safer
location but in general we we have seen
surprisingly few instances of street
homeless people appearing to have
suffered from this disease but I think
it does put a point on the fact that the
reality of homeless people living in
Subway's or most of the time being in
Subway's is just unacceptable it's
unacceptable on every level it's
inhumane it's not right for the homeless
individuals who should have a roof over
their head who should have regular
access to medical care
it's not fair to straphangers it never
has been this is why we're now on the
offensive with the journey home
initiative which is continuing through
this crisis and will deepen when it's
over this is why I think it's very good
that we teamed up with the state and the
MTA to do the closures late at night to
disrupt that pattern that's been with us
for decades because it's just not safe
for anybody to be living on the street
or living in the subways I want to see
that end once and for all in terms of
the specifics around these individuals
and the testing and anything else
commissioner banks wants to add go ahead
Commissioner answer question to you the
information that I gave her about the
tests came from the medical examiner's
office so it's it's fresh information
just to reiterate what the mayor said
you know before the pandemic during the
pandemic our teams are out there 24
hours a day literally bringing people in
off the streets you know there's nobody
who's more impatient than I am trying to
get people that help
that they need it's the reason why even
in the middle of endemic would beginning
to bring on more safe haven beds more
resources to be able to bring people in
and I think the ability to connect to
more people on the subways during the
shutdown period will give more pathways
off the streets we were able to bring
for example last Monday night that at
the World Trade Center station we were
able to bring in almost 30 people and
other 30 people got back on the train
and I saw that as a lost opportunity to
try to engage people and that's why I
think the the initiative that the
governor the mayor have will give us
more chances to bring more people in
from the streets which is our goal
24/7 to be able to do that and to link
them to the resources that we have to
get a roof over the heads and get them
the services and support that that they
deserve a needle next we have Todd from
am New York warmest mayor I have a
question actually for a commissioner
Shea and it pertains to gatherings in
regards to freedom of expression freedom
of speech of people who have protests
yesterday there was a protest over by
Mount Sinai on First Avenue and most
there was about a dozen of protesters
that were there and they were gathered
there very spread out very spread out
most and the media was was definitely
more than six feet away from the
speakers and people and yet a lot of the
cops that came over to us and came up to
us were initially threatening to give
summonses and arrests even though we
were far enough away do you have a
policy as to how to approach these
protests without with by with
maintaining freedom of speech but at the
same time maintaining this social
distancing
you for the question its I think it's
it's a powerful and I think it's a great
question you know you're talking about
some of the values that we hold in the
highest regard in this country and
certainly this city the right to people
together and the right of free speech
and the right of protest but now and now
comes the bad news we're in a pandemic
and there's been executive orders issued
and these are not policies of the police
department these are now laws that have
been passed down executive through
executive order to maintain people and
keep people alive so while we greatly
greatly respect the right of people to
protest there should not be protests
taking place in the middle of a pandemic
by gathering outside and putting people
at risk and that's the short answer
yeah and look Todd people who want to
make their voices heard there's plenty
of ways to do it without gathering in
person and just the question is always
whoever has whatever cause they want to
speak to are they interested in
protecting people's lives if they are
use all the other tools you have to get
your point across but avoid anything
that might put other people in harm's
way next we have Henry from Bloomberg
mr. mayor my questions have to do with
testing I am curious as to how many
people are being tested per day how that
compares with two or three weeks ago and
your data point on people who test
positive wouldn't it be completely
unsurprising if the more people you test
the lower the percentage will be so why
would that be an indicator of progress I
mean if you're testing 10,000 people and
50 people show up positive that's one
but if you're testing a hundred people
and people and fifty people show a
positive that's another thing so I'm I'm
curious as to first of all what cut you
know what's the measure for what kind of
progress is being made just in terms of
quantity of testing and beyond that you
know you mentioned the self testing
protocol is that moving forward or is it
delayed by law kinds of logistical
problems getting reagents and other
supplies it's basically the thrust of my
question today Thank You Henry
okay first the the factual question so
last few days we're at approximately
13,000 tests per day that is definitely
progress you go back three weeks ago we
were under 10,000 a day so we are
definitely starting to ramp up you know
when you add 3,000 more per day you're
adding you know over 20,000 more per
week so that's a big deal but that
number has to grow a whole lot more
unquestionably I would respectfully
disagree on the universe question
because you know we have said now for
quite a while our health commissioner's
said that you could expect easily more
than half of New Yorkers to contract
this disease so I don't think at all it
is a given that if you test more and
more people your numbers and evitable go
down with every given day there's more
spread of the disease and look we're
fighting it back now that is true if you
say well hey you know isn't shelter in
place social distancing aren't all these
things bending the curve obviously they
are but we still see a substantial
number of new cases each day so I don't
think it's right to say well if you do
more and more testing you're always
inevitably going to get a more favorable
result we want the truth whatever it is
the more people we test the clearer
truth we get if we're testing more and
more people and the numbers keep going
down that means something objectively is
happening and that's what we're seeing
more and more and that's a really really
good sign so I think it means that these
strategies are working that we're going
to stick to them that we're only gonna
let up very carefully and in a very
steady fashion to not allow that
resurgence or that boomerang but no I I
think more is more here Henry the more
we test the clearer picture we get and
if we test more and more people and the
numbers keep going down that is
absolutely meaningful information and
then on this self swab you know that's
now being used in our Health and
Hospitals clinics there is some lab
capacity go with it but we need more and
more lab capacity go with it we need
more and more lab capacity in general so
this is a moving target situation we're
working with the labs to get them all to
be able to handle or as many as possible
of them to handle the self swab test as
they're faster and they're easier that
better for everyone involved they're
safer we're making progress on that
front but the big question you mentioned
the reagents the big question is we need
a massive uptick in lab capacity overall
which can only be achieved with the help
of the federal government and the
ability of federal government to get the
reagents in from around the world
maximize production here in this country
maximize production of the machines that
actually use to analyze the tests we're
still seeing a federal government
somehow is at a lower speed than
everyone else when it comes to
maximizing lab capacity even though this
has been an urgent issue for two months
so it's another case of I don't know why
the defense production Act is not being
used more fully by the president we're
gonna be at this a long time so if he if
he went into full gear today it would
help us for sure in the weeks and months
ahead we still don't see that it's
absolutely I just can't understand it
for the life of me but that said we're
gonna keep working with the labs and I
think in general labs are trying their
best to get us the maximum capacity next
we have Andrew from NBC good morning mr.
mayor good morning everyone
you're doing well are you doing I'm
hanging in there
my question is about field hospitals
with the closure of Javits and now
Central Park what is the status of the
Billie Jean King Center when do you plan
on closing that down and could you not
be using the people currently assigned
to that facility right now to do some of
the contact tracing that you said is so
urgent yeah I think when we were last at
the Billie Jean King Center in fact we
said that the goal would be as it was
needed less to convert it to an
isolation facility and exactly as you
say to use the staffing there for other
needs
we'll get you an update today Andrew on
exactly what's going on remember the
Billie Jean King Center is attached to
Elmhurst Hospital and Queens hospital
that have really borne the brunt here so
the last I heard they still had plenty
to do on the site but if that has
changed and they can start making that
transition to being an isolation site
that's great if some of the medical
personnel can be used differently that's
great we would do that as quickly as we
can so you're definitely right that
we've seen a good trend the last a week
or so in terms of not needing some of
those facilities but unlike the the
field hospitals that were only usable
for hospitals this one was one we
projected from the beginning at the
right time would be converted to being
yet another place for isolation as part
of a test and trace strategy so we fully
expect to see that happening in the
coming days next is your from the city
hi everyone I wanted to follow up on
Ashley's questions about the incident
that resulted in the three arrests first
of all it is it confirmed that the
encounter started as a social distancing
enforcement and if so I wanted to ask
more generally speaking is that the kind
of enforcement that the city wants to
see a should plainclothes officers be
involved in that enforcement and B do
you want enforcement
groups as small as two individuals you
know eivol turned to Commissioner Shay
but I appreciate the question but I also
want to call out just a logic here look
the NYPD again overwhelmingly for weeks
and weeks and weeks has been focusing on
enforcing in communities all over the
city in situations where we needed that
presence to make sure that people were
safe and obviously overwhelmingly it's
been working and we do not see in sense
like this this is a rarity but clearly
there was more going on here as the
Commissioner just said than a typical
social distancing enforcement situation
Commissioner why don't you go into the
details again so so that's why I was
providing some context earlier when you
look at other video cameras what it what
it shows is before the officers arrive
you see the I'm talking about the
initial encounter now you see an
individual sitting on a milk crate you
see somebody coming up to them them in
the short conversation
the female after a short conversation
steps back and is waiting then you see a
number of other people walking by
milling about you see a number of people
not wearing masks at that scene and that
is the scene that the offices in
plainclothes as you pointed out
initially walked up to to investigate to
your question about shoot officers in
plain clothes be participating in these
activities there is no hard and fast
rule but really what it comes down to is
all members of the NYPD are very active
in both mourning people educating people
and when it comes to it summoning and
arresting people which is again very
infrequently happening when you look at
the totality of our interactions but but
absolutely there is nothing that says
that they should not be engaging in this
and
I would just point out again well while
all this social distancing is going on
crime is continuing
you know those same officers throughout
the city this weekend engaging people
participating in dice games where we
recover firearms 16 separate incidents
just Saturday and Sunday 16 where
officers engaged individuals on the
streets of New York City and recovered a
firearm so you know most of those
incidents you don't hear about because
the arrest is made without fanfare
without a use of force thankfully
without any loss of life but you know
this is just what some of what we're
seeing on the streets last two for today
next we have Jake from Gothamist hi
there good morning my first question is
about the city's distribution of free
masks I think number last week was 275
thousand microplates 7.5 million so I'm
curious how that worked up so
dramatically then I have a question for
Shay as well they actually asked earlier
about data on social distancing
enforcement we've we've asked the NYPD
as well for this multiple times does the
NYPD have that data and what do you guys
commit to releasing it so Jake I'll
start and certainly as I turn to
Commissioner Shay I'll say look whatever
data is kept on on enforcement and
demographics and and locations in terms
of neighborhood by neighborhood we want
to get out there but I remind you again
a lot of what happens it doesn't reach
the level of something that would be
formally tracked like us summons so the
Commissioner will talk about that in a
moment
the face coverings yeah we put out a
huge amount this weekend a couple of
different initiatives that between them
add up to several hundred thousand that
we started this weekend we have been
wanting to build a sustainable approach
to distributing face coverings for free
to New Yorkers in the last few days
that's come together so we're gonna be
distributing 7.5 million face coverings
in the weeks ahead and just we want to
keep with it we want it to be ubiquitous
there are parts of the city that we're
not in the initial wave this weekend
we're going to be expanding to many many
more locations as I indicated on that
list so any part of the city that so far
didn't get a lot of distribution this
weekend we'll see the distribution
increased markedly this coming weekend
and throughout the week but the goal
here is to make it that it's really
really easy if you need a face covering
get one we've said from the beginning
people can make it out anything they
have around the house
and can use a scarf a bandana whatever
but we want to be something where it's
just constant that you're being offered
face coverings as a reminder but also
for people legitimately don't have one
or forgot one we want to make it ever
more easy for people to have a face
covering Commissioner yeah we've gotten
this question a couple times in
different forms we are absolutely
committed to being as transparent as
possible I would anticipate releasing a
quite a bit of information details down
to the precinct level possibly as even
as different parks we're just working
through the requests that we have
received as well as you know working it
through legal but I further reporters
that are on the call listening I would
absolutely anticipate that information
being released sorry it's taking so long
last for today we have Juliet from 1010
wins oh hi good morning everyone so my
question is specifically for
Commissioner Shea you said earlier this
morning that you'll be making a lot of
adjustments going forward on how to
monitor and enforce social distancing
and I've been seeing photos over the
weekend of the West Village and Orchard
Beach with people very close together
and I know the police department has
plenty of experience with crowd control
at big events and even limiting people
and locations
what are your concerns and what
adjustments do you think you need to
make Juliet I think we all went into
this weekend with our eyes wide open
that this weekend would be particularly
challenging I think that's why we had
the number of officers deployed that we
did as well as the I could tell you that
behind the scenes there was an awful lot
of coordination with other city agencies
we stood up our joint operation center
as we do for large-scale events such as
New Year's Eve to feel the complaints
that were coming in whether it's from
3-1-1 our other sources and make sure
that we were operating as efficiently in
a streamlined manner to get resources to
where issues might be popping up across
the city and to deal with it as quickly
as possible I went into this weekend as
well thinking that every week that we
move forward of course we're going to be
making adjustments to to see what areas
we're seeing increased use in parks I
don't think there's any two parts
exactly alike when you look at the
landscape of them the ability to social
distance in them so that's what I'm
referring to I expected coming out of
this weekend we'll look at what went
well what what areas that we see
crowding that was a little too close and
we'll make adjustments both in
deployment as well as the messaging - I
think the messaging is very critical
here in terms of getting the word out as
early as possible by the police
department in particular areas but it
should be as always we'll take a look at
what we do with the after-action
reporting try to learn from this weekend
and we'll go forward to make sure that
we do everything possible to keep people
safe Juliet let me just add I think you
know the really want to commend the NYPD
the Parks Department all the agencies
they days and days before the weekend
recognized to be warmer weather they put
a whole lot of personnel out obviously
the face covering distribution was a
very good thing a lot of things were
done right and there were a lot of
places where the consistency around the
social distancing the
percentage of people wearing a face
coverings were very high there clearly
are some places that we experience
challenges we have to do better we will
do better but the Commissioner is right
this is a work in progress because we're
all learning a whole new reality here
what I can guarantee you is every week
will get better in terms of the ability
to enforce more and more personnel are
coming back from being sick that's going
to help us we're learning important
lessons about what works we're going to
use those lessons to figure out a
template and that template will be used
everywhere consistently and I want New
Yorkers to have that assurance we are
going to make sure that social
distancing works and all the other rules
work so we can that's our pathway back
to normal it has to work we have to make
it work but it requires enforcement to
do that let me conclude today with a
point that's really really crucial to
the future of this city and so many of
the things we talked about today are
about our ability to move forward and
that means getting back on our feet that
means not only thanking in so many ways
our heroes from this struggle but making
sure that their jobs will be secure for
the long haul for the crucial work they
do it means providing the services we
need as part of a restart and a recovery
all the things we want to do we want to
thank people give them security give
everyone a way back all of that hangs in
the balance in the discussions happening
right now in Washington DC I want people
to feel this very personally it really
comes down to what happens in these next
weeks in Washington with the fourth
stimulus bill will determine a lot of
the future of New York City and many
other cities and states all over the
country our nation has a simple choice
either to help cities and states back on
our feet help us move forward or turn
their back on us and leave us in a
situation where we cannot even provide
the most basic services to our people
this is the same discussion that's
happening in cities and states
all over the country red states and blue
states everyone's going through the same
crisis everyone has the same question
and we're not getting answers certainly
from the White House in fact the
indicators we've gotten from the White
House in the last 48 hours are dangerous
and I want to quote again I want
everyone to understand I want you to
take this personally because it's aimed
at you each and every New Yorker and
it's true again for people in cities and
states all over the country take
personally when the White House chief
economic adviser Larry Kudlow says we're
taking quote this is a quote we're
taking a pause on additional corona
virus relief the chief economic adviser
in the White House saying you don't need
any more help so they can afford to take
a pause like everything's just perfect
right now or Kevin Hassett White House
economic adviser who said the president
this is a quote again the president is
absolutely opposed to bailout so if he's
so absolutely opposed to bailouts why
did he give 58 billion dollars to the
airline industry why did he create all
sorts of giveaways to corporate America
if he's so opposed to bailouts how about
a bailout for the first responders the
health care workers the essential
workers who right now at the front line
protecting lives is he opposed to that
does he want to look them in the face
and say you don't deserve help I don't
think he has the guts to do that so why
doesn't he take a stand and tell his
advisers to shut up and actually come
out and say we need a stimulus for that
we'll take care of New York and cities
and states all over the country
so we can get back on our feet let me
just think about it's common sense you
can't go through something like this and
gents nap your fingers and come out of
it you have to get some help to be able
to move forward and that's what our
federal government's supposed to do for
us so I'm very frustrated what I'm
hearing from the White House and I'm
very frustrated the president doesn't
speak up and say no I should say I fully
support stimulus 4 I want to see our
cities and states come back together
I'll be there for them instead
stony silence from the president and
very dangerous statements from his
advisors that said a ray of light here
in the Congress something much better
over the weekend
I spoke with Speaker Nancy Pelosi who's
been an extraordinary leader in this
crisis I spoke with the leading Democrat
in the House from this state congressman
Hakeem Jeffries both of them 100%
committed to making New York City whole
and moving us forward now and in the
future and that is leadership
understanding that people are put back
on their heels you come to their defense
this heroic city that has done so much
in this crisis we only need that helping
hand so we can come back and then we can
help lead America's recovery because we
have always led all the recoveries in
the past and we're ready to do it again
so I see different things coming out of
Washington and I just hope the White
House is paying attention because here's
a chance to do the right thing but what
some of these people are saying is
absolutely the wrong thing and I hope
when you hear it you're as angry as I am
we're not gonna we're not gonna allow
this to happen I want to be really
really clear they are not gonna do this
to New York City we're gonna stand up
and fight and when we fight it counts
for a whole lot so everyone thank you
thank you for all you are doing thank
you for the way every one of you is
participating in fighting back this
disease let's keep fighting and we can
move forward together thanks so much
you